Add which-key reference (#44)
VSpaceCode/vspacecode.github.io: docs/whichkey/reference.md

---
id: reference
title: Reference
---

> Which-key extension aims to provides similar keybinding popup using the [QuickPick](https://code.visualstudio.com/api/references/vscode-api#QuickPick)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Which-key extension aims to provide a keybinding popup similar to
[emacs-which-key](https://github.com/justbur/emacs-which-key)
by using the [QuickPick](https://code.visualstudio.com/api/references/vscode-api#QuickPick)
```

API from vscode.

> This extension was broken out of `VSpaceCode`, which was created to emulate the keybinding of spacemacs in VSCode ([VSpaceCode](./../installation.md)),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This extension was broken out of [`VSpaceCode`](./../installation.md), which was created to emulate the keybinding of spacemacs in VSCode,
```

> to decouple the core and the definition of bindings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to decouple the core and the definition of the bindings.
```

## Commands

> Commands are the main way to inference with which-key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Commands are the main way to interact with which-key.
```
?

### Show

Command: `whichkey.show`

Args: `string`, `Array<BindingItem>`, `undefined`

Description:
A command to show which-key menu.

> - `string` is the key of the [registered](#register) bindings that will be use to display a which-key menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `string` is the key of the [registered](#register) bindings that will be used to display a which-key menu.
```

- `Array<BindingItem>` is an array of [`BindingItem`](#bindingitem) that will be used directly to display a which-key menu.
- `undefined` means the default bindings defined at `whichkey.bindings` in the configuration will be used to display a which-key menu.

### Register

Command: `whichkey.register`

Args:

```ts
{
    bindings: string;
    overrides?: string;
    title?: string;
}

> ```

Reviewer: shouldn't the format of the description of the args be coherent with the other commands?
In the other commands you are not using code to describe them.

Author: I thought this would be a little bit easier to read since the description is right below, and I also have a little bit of code in args of `whichkey.triggerKey` in line 52.

Description:
A command to register config which-key so a canonical record of the bindings lives in memory.

- `bindings` is the configuration location of the bindings. e.g. `vspacecode.bindings`.
- `overrides` is the configuration location of the overrides. e.g. `vspacecode.overrides`.
- `title` is the title of the which-key menu to display on the top-level.

### Trigger Key

Command: `whichkey.triggerKey`

Args: `string`, `{ key: string, when?: string }`

Description:
A command used primarily for accepting non-characters key in which-key menu and pass in `when` clause via vscode shortcut.

:::note

#### Non-character key

> The which-key menu relies QuickPick's input. Because it is a text input, we can not capture non-character keys like arrow keys, tab key, and keys with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The which-key menu relies on QuickPick's input. Because it is a text input, we cannot capture non-character keys like arrow keys, tab key, and keys with
```

> modifier like C-x. We can capture those keys using vscode shortcut with `whichkeyVisible` as when clause of the shortcut.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
modifier like `C-x`. We can capture those keys using vscode shortcut with `whichkeyVisible` as `when` clause of the shortcut.
```

> See [Extra](extra#use-non-character-keys) page for detail on usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [Extra](extra#use-non-character-keys) page for more details on usage.
```

:::

:::note

#### Pass-in when clause

> Since vscode doesn't allows extension to read context key-value ([vscode#10471](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/issues/10471)),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since vscode doesn't allow extension to read context key-value ([vscode#10471](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/issues/10471)),
```

we will have to relied on `when` clause evaluation in vscode shortcut to pass the context to which-key.
See [conditional bindings](./extra.md#when) for more details on the usage.
:::

### Describe Bindings

Command: `whichkey.describeBindings`

Description:
This is similar to [helm-descbinds](https://github.com/emacs-helm/helm-descbinds) which can search and execute the binding ([vscode-which-key#12](https://github.com/VSpaceCode/vscode-which-key/issues/12)).
Note that it will only shows described bindings menu for the currently displayed bindings (and its sub-bindings).

### Show Transient

Command: `whichkey.showTransient`

Args: [`TransientMenuConfig`](#transientmenuconfig) | `string`

> Description: Show a transient with the definition in the argument. The definition can be either

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: Show a transient menu with the definition in the argument. The definition can be either:
```

Author: ```suggestion
Description:
Show a transient menu with the definition in the argument.
```
Two colons on the same line seems a little bit weird. Removing the last sentence makes this similar to line 42.

> - object of [`TransientMenuConfig`](#transientmenuconfig)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- an object of [`TransientMenuConfig`](#transientmenuconfig)
```

- a `string` referencing the location of in the configuration to get `TransientMenuConfig`

### Repeat Recent

Command: `whichkey.repeatRecent`

Description:
A command to show a which-key menu with key 1 to 9 to repeat the most recently executed command bindings.

### Recent Most Recent

Command: `whichkey.repeatMostRecent`

Description:
A command to repeat the command binding most recently executed on which-key.

### Toggle Zen Mode

Command: `whichkey.toggleZenMode`

Description:
A command to toggle zen mode for transient menu, which will show/hide all the menu items to save screen real estate.

### Open File

Command: `whichkey.openFile`

Description:

> This is a command to get around issue where vscode doesn't provide a single cross platform command to open file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a command to get around an issue where vscode doesn't provide a single cross platform command to open file.
```

See [vscode-which-key#26](https://github.com/VSpaceCode/vscode-which-key/issues/26).

## Context

The extension will also set the following context when applicable so it can be used in `when` clause of vscode shortcuts.

> `whichkeyActive` is a boolean that will be set to `true` when whichkey is active including the time when it is excluding a command.
> This is rarely used and most of the use case can be replaced with `whichKeyVisible`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `whichkeyActive` is a boolean that will be set to `true` when whichkey is active including the times when it is excluding a command.
  This is rarely used and in most of the use cases it can be replaced with `whichKeyVisible`.
```

Author: ```suggestion
- `whichkeyActive` is a boolean that will be set to `true` when whichkey is active which includes the time during the command execution with the menu being hidden.
  This is rarely used and in most of the use cases it can be replaced with `whichKeyVisible`.
```

> `whichkeyVisible` is a boolean that will be set to `true` when whichkey menu is visible. Note that this will be `false` when transient menu is visible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `whichkeyVisible` is a boolean that will be set to `true` when the whichkey menu is visible.
  Note that this will be `false` when the transient menu is visible.
```

> `transientVisible` is a boolean that wil lbe set to `true` when the transient menu is visible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `transientVisible` is a boolean that will be set to `true` when the transient menu is visible.
```

## Config

The extension uses the following configurations.

### Delay

Key: `whichkey.delay`

Type: `number`

Description:

> Delay (in milliseconds) for which-key menu to display. Setting this to positive value will delay the display of the which-key menu items while

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Delay (in milliseconds) for the which-key menu to be displayed after it has been triggered.
Setting this to positive value will just delay the display of the which-key menu items, while
```

Author: ```suggestion
Delay (in milliseconds) for the which-key menu items to be displayed.
Setting this to positive value will just delay the display of the which-key menu items, while
```
I feel like add "it has been triggered" might add more confusion, especially I was not sure what "it" refers to and the word trigger doesn't seem right here. I also thought different phrase like "after the show command is executed". But, it seems like it not adding value while being a long sentence. So I kept it succinct and short in the suggestion.

key input remains functional.

### Show Icons

Key: `whichkey.showIcons`

Type: `boolean`

Description:
Controls whether to show or hide icons in which-key menu.

### Sort Order

Key: `whichkey.sortOrder`

> Type: `"none"` | `"alphabetically"` | `"nonNumberFirst"`

Reviewer: is there a default value?

Author: default is `"none"`

Author: Added <code>Default: \`"none"\`</code>

Description:

> Controls the sorting order of the which-key menu items.

Author: ```suggestion
Controls the sorting order of the which-key menu items. Default to `"none"`.
```

Author: Added <code>Default: `"none"`</code> instead. Resolving this.

- `"none"` will not sort the bindings.
- `"alphabetically"` will sort the bindings alphabetically using [`String.prototype.localeCompare()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/localeCompare).
- `"nonNumberFirst"` will sort the bindings alphabetically like `"alphabetically"` but have the bindings with number as key last.

### Which-key Default Bindings

Key: `whichkey.bindings`

Type: `Array<BindingItem>`

Description:
The configuration of the default which-key menu. This contains the array of [`BindingItem`](#bindingitem).

### Transient Bindings

Key: `whichkey.transient`

Type: `object`

Description:
A key-value pair to store default definitions of transient menu for command `whichkey.showTransient` to reference.

> ## Shortcut

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Shortcuts
```

> These are the shortcut the extension contributed, which means they will work without manually editing your user's `keybindings.json`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are the shortcuts the extension contributed, which means they will work without manually editing your user's `keybindings.json`.
```

Reviewer: I don't understand `the extension contributed`.
Is it better `boundled with the extension`?

Author: bundled is probably a term easier to understand. vscode use contribute to for extension to "contribute" to settings, shortcuts, lsp, etc.

VScode also uses contribution in the extension UI.
<img width="587" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3455662/121463457-ef165f00-c966-11eb-82ab-9730893bc4e6.png">

```suggestion
The whichkey extension contributes the following shortcuts, which means they will work without manually editing your user's `keybindings.json`.
```

`TAB` when `whichKeyVisible` will execute `whichkey.triggerKey` with `\t` as argument to which-key in order to capture of tab `TAB` key.

`C-h` when `whichKeyVisible` will execute `whichkey.describeBindings`, which will show the describe binding menu for the bindings
(and its sub bindings) which-key currently displayed.

## Types

### BindingType

```ts
{
    Command = "command",
    Commands = "commands",
    Bindings = "bindings",
    Transient = "transient",
    Conditional = "conditional"
}
```

- Command type indicates a single command will be executed on selection.
- Commands type indicates multiple commands will be executed on selection.

> - Bindings type indicates another the sub-menu base on the supplied bindings will be display on selection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Bindings type indicates that another sub-menu will be display on selection based on the supplied bindings.
```

Author: ```suggestion
- Bindings type indicates that another sub-menu with the supplied bindings will be displayed upon menu item selection.
```

> - Transient type is similar to bindings type expect the menu will not disappear on selection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Transient type is similar to bindings type except the menu will not disappear on selection.
```

> The transient type is being deprecated in favor of a separate command `which.showTransient`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The transient type is being deprecated in favor of the separate command `whichkey.showTransient`.
```

All current definitions of transient type are converted internally at the moment.
- Conditional type is an experimental feature which provides conditional binding behavior. See [Extra](extra/#conditional-bindings-experimental)

### BindingItem

```ts
{
    key: string;
    name: string;
    icon?: string;
    type: BindingType;
    bindings?: BindingItem[];
    command?: string;
    commands?: string[];
    args?: any;
}
```

- `key` is the key such as `k` ot `\t` to trigger the binding.

> - `name` is the name of the this binding such as `+buffer`  or `start debug`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `name` is the name of the binding such as `+buffer` or `start debug`.
```

> - `icon` is an optional property when supplied is used to display vscode [product icons](https://code.visualstudio.com/api/references/icons-in-labels)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `icon` is an optional property. When supplied it is used to display vscode [product icons](https://code.visualstudio.com/api/references/icons-in-labels)
```

Author: ```suggestion
- `icon` is an optional string property (e.g. `rocket`) used for the display of vscode [product icons](https://code.visualstudio.com/api/references/icons-in-labels)
```

as a prefix in the menu item
- `type` specifies the type of this binding. see [`bindingtype`](#bindingtype)

> - `bindings` is an optional property that is used with binding, transient, conditional type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `bindings` is an optional property that is used with binding, transient and conditional type.
```

> - `command` is an optional property is used with command binding type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `command` is an optional property used with command binding type.
```

> - `commands` is an optional property is used with commands binding type. an array of command string is expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `commands` is an optional property used with commands binding type. An array of command string is expected.
```

- `args` is an optional property that is used to supply arguments to commands for `"command"` or `"commands"`.

> when `"command"` is used, the `args` will pass directly to the command being executed.
> when `"commands"` is used, an array of the augments is expected if augment passing is needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When `"command"` is used, the `args` will be passed directly to the command being executed.
When `"commands"` is used, an array of the arguments is expected if argument passing is needed.
```

> `null` can be used to indicate no arguments for a specific position if any subsequent command require an args.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`null` can be used to indicate no arguments for a specific position if any subsequent command require an arg.
```

### TransientMenuConfig

```ts
{
    title?: string;
    bindings: Array<TransientBindingItem>
}
```

> - `title` is optional property for the title of the transient menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `title` is an optional property for the title of the transient menu.
```

- `bindings` is the array of [`TransientBindingItem`](#transientbindingitem).

### TransientBindingItem

```ts
{
    key: string;
    name: string;
    exit?: boolean;
    command?: string;
    commands?: string[];
    args?: any;
}
```

- `key` is the key such as `k` ot `\t` to trigger the binding.

> - `name` is the name of the this binding such as `+buffer`  or `start debug`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `name` is the name of the binding such as `+buffer` or `start debug`.
```

as a prefix in the menu item

> - `exit` is an optional boolean property. When it is set to true, the transient will exit on selection of this item.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `exit` is an optional boolean property. When it is set to `true`, the transient menu will exit on selection of this item.
```

> - `command` is an optional property is used with command binding type.
> - `commands` is an optional property is used with commands binding type. an array of command string is expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `command` is an optional property used with command binding type.
- `commands` is an optional property used with commands binding type. An array of command string is expected.
```

- `args` is an optional property that is used to supply arguments to commands for `"command"` or `"commands"`.

> when `"command"` is used, the `args` will pass directly to the command being executed.
> when `"commands"` is used, an array of the augments is expected if augment passing is needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When `"command"` is used, the `args` will be passed directly to the command being executed.
When `"commands"` is used, an array of the arguments is expected if argument passing is needed.
```

> `null` can be used to indicate no arguments for a specific position if any subsequent command require an args.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`null` can be used to indicate no arguments for a specific position if any subsequent command require an arg.
```

Args: [`TransientMenuConfig`](#transientmenuconfig) | `string`

Description:
Show a transient menu with the definition in the argument.

- an object of [`TransientMenuConfig`](#transientmenuconfig)
- a `string` referencing the location of in the configuration to get `TransientMenuConfig`

### Repeat Recent

Command: `whichkey.repeatRecent`

Description:
A command to show a which-key menu with key 1 to 9 to repeat the most recently executed command bindings.

### Recent Most Recent

Command: `whichkey.repeatMostRecent`

Description:
A command to repeat the command binding most recently executed on which-key.

### Toggle Zen Mode

Command: `whichkey.toggleZenMode`

Description:
A command to toggle zen mode for transient menu, which will show/hide all the menu items to save screen real estate.

### Open File

Command: `whichkey.openFile`

Description:
This is a command to get around an issue where vscode doesn't provide a single cross platform command to open file.
See [vscode-which-key#26](https://github.com/VSpaceCode/vscode-which-key/issues/26).

## Context

The extension will also set the following context when applicable so it can be used in `when` clause of vscode shortcuts.

> - `whichkeyActive` is a boolean that will be set to `true` when whichkey is active which includes the time during the command execution with the menu being hidden.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `whichkeyActive` is a boolean that will be set to `true` when whichkey is active which
  includes the time during the command execution with the menu being hidden.
```
This should fix ci
